The role of agentic AI has grown rapidly over the past several months as organizational leaders seek ways to accelerate AI Transformation. We firmly believe that Agents + Copilot + Human Ambition can deliver real AI differentiation for our customers. By putting the autonomous capabilities of an agent to work for their businesses, our customers are unlocking AI opportunity to realize greater value. The recent introduction of Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat is delivering on our promise of “Copilot for all” by providing frontline workers with a free, secure and enterprise-ready AI chat interface. Our customers are building their own custom agents with the no-code, low-code features of Microsoft Copilot Studio, allowing citizen and professional developers to extend the capabilities of Copilot and deliver on the unique needs of their industry. We also offer the best prebuilt agent framework right out-of-the-box, such as Sales Agent that works autonomously to help sellers build pipeline and close more deals with greater speed. Similarly, we recently announced general purpose reasoning agents — such as Researcher and Analyst — and invite all of our Microsoft 365 Copilot users to try these in their environments.

It is exciting to see how agents are driving pragmatic AI innovation for our customers by increasing productivity, creating capacity across every role and function and improving business processes. Below are a few highlights from the past quarter that underscore the impact of an agentic AI approach — from improving employee experiences to streamlined workflows and significant cost savings.

Agentic service management software provider Atomicwork leveraged Azure AI Foundry to create Atom — an AI agent that transforms the digital workplace experience for employees and automates service delivery. Adopters of this agentic management platform recognize significant benefits, such as reduced operational costs and increased employee satisfaction, with one customer achieving a 65% deflection rate within six months of implementation and projections of 80% by the end of the year. Integration within Microsoft Teams and other enterprise tools have further streamlined service delivery, allowing employees easier access to information and support. The company’s AI-driven approach has resulted in a 20% increase in accuracy and 75% reduction in response latency when compared to competing solutions.

To support employees as they manage the high demand of internal requests and to create a more satisfying work environment, BDO Colombia used Copilot Studio and Power Platform to develop BeTic 2.0 — an agent that centralizes and automates key payroll and finance processes. The agent reduced operational workload by 50%, optimized 78% of internal processes and showed 99.9% accuracy in managed requests. It also helped reduce duplicative work, optimized workflows, improved the employee-client experience and continues to serve as a competitive differentiator for the company in the market.

Dow is using agents to automate the shipping invoice analysis process and streamline its global supply chain to unlock new efficiencies and value. Receiving more than 100,000 shipping invoices via PDF each year, Dow built an autonomous agent in Copilot Studio to scan for billing inaccuracies and surface them in a dashboard for employee review. Using Freight Agent — a second agent built in Copilot Studio — employees can investigate further by “dialoguing with the data” in natural language. The agents are helping employees solve the challenge of hidden losses autonomously within minutes rather than weeks or months. Dow expects to save millions of dollars on shipping costs through increased accuracy in logistic rates and billing within the first year.

As a leading provider of sustainable energy in Belgium, Eneco serves over 1.5 million customers. Facing performance issues with their existing chatbot, Eneco developed a new AI-driven agent using the no-code, graphical interface in Copilot Studio. This multilingual agent was deployed on the company website in just three months, integrating seamlessly with its live chat platform. The new agent manages 24,000 chats per month — an increase of 140% over the previous solution — and resolves 70% more customer conversations without a handoff to a live representative. For requests that do require escalation, the agent provides an AI-generated summary of the conversation for a more optimized call center experience.

To reimagine trend forecasting and consumer marketing, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. leveraged Copilot Studio to develop ConsumerIQ — an agent that centralizes and streamlines consumer data to enable instant access to actionable insights. Using natural language prompts, the agent reduced the time required for marketers to gather data from hours to seconds, while accelerating decision-making and helping prevent duplicated research. Together with Azure OpenAI Service and Azure AI Search, teams can gather data, identify trends, build marketing assets, inform research and move products to market faster.

To create proposals and streamline knowledge retrieval and organization, Fujitsu leveraged Azure AI Agent Service within Azure AI Foundry to develop an intelligent, scalable AI agent for sales automation. The agent boosted productivity of sales teams by 67% while addressing knowledge gaps and allowing them to build stronger customer relationships. This transformation allowed teams to shift from time-intensive tasks to strategic planning and customer relationship building, while also supporting new hires with product information and strategic guidance.

To reduce manual tasks and help employees deliver exceptional experiences, global baker Grupo Bimbo established its first ever technology Center of Excellence. Using Power Platform solutions and Copilot Studio, teams created 7,000 power apps, 18,000 processes and 650 agents to reduce busy work and enhance consumer service. By automating low-value tasks, the company saved tens of millions of dollars annually in development efforts and operational efficiencies. Grupo Bimbo also migrated to Azure for its AI capabilities, scalability, security and rapid time to market for apps.

KPMG developed Comply AI — an agent that helps identify environment, social and governance compliance. Using Microsoft AI technologies, the agent helps identify relevant obligations, generate statements in natural language, assess control effectiveness and redraft control descriptions. This has already helped one of its customers achieve 70% improvement in Controls and Risks descriptions, an 18-month reduction in compliance program timelines and a 50% cut in ongoing compliance efforts. KPMG is also using an agent to support new hires by providing templates and historical references to speed up the onboarding process and reduce follow-up calls by 20%.

To significantly enhance its customer service operations, T-Mobile used Power Apps to develop PromoGenius — an app that combines promotional data from multiple systems and documents to keep frontline retail employees equipped with the latest promotional information for customers. Using Copilot Studio, the company embedded an agent in the app so customer service representatives can instantly search for technical details from device manufacturers and create a customer-facing view of product information in a fraction of the time a manual search would require. PromoGenius is the second most-used app in the company, with 83,000 unique users and 500,000 launches a month.

Using Copilot Studio, Virgin Money developed Redi — an agent serving as a digital host within a mobile app for credit card customers. The agent, trained to understand colloquialisms and even known to tell jokes, serves as a secure way for customers to get answers quickly while understanding appropriate context for when a live representative is required. The company views this agent as a tool for its employees to better serve customers, handling over one million interactions, boosting customer satisfaction and becoming one of the bank’s top-rated service channels. Redi now supports customers across Virgin Money’s digital platforms and has been recognized with an industry award for AI in financial services.

To help employees navigate countless procedures, evolving regulations and complex banking systems, Wells Fargo built an agent through Teams to ensure fast and accurate customer support. Using large language models, the agent provides instant access to guidance on 1,700 internal procedures across 4,000 bank branches. Employees can now locate needed information faster without support from a colleague, with 75% of searches happening through the agent and response times reduced from 10 minutes to 30 seconds.

There is immense potential for agents to drive AI-first differentiation for organizations everywhere, especially when combined with Copilot and human ambition. At Microsoft, we believe AI is about empowering human achievement, unlocking potential and democratizing intelligence for as many people as possible with our cloud and AI solutions — as evidenced by these AI Transformation stories of more than 700 customers and partners. I look forward to partnering with you to unlock continued AI opportunity, drive pragmatic innovation and realize meaningful business impact for your organization.

Tags: AI, Azure AI Agent Service, Azure AI Foundry, Azure AI Search, Copilot, Copilot Studio, Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat, Microsoft Azure OpenAI Service, Microsoft Teams, Power Platform, Researcher and Analyst, Sales Agent
